Atypical antipsychotics are used to treat various mental health symptoms,
including hallucinations, delusions, aggression,
or abnormal behavior and thinking.
In some cases they can also be used to treat
non-psychotic disorders.
The exact way atypical antipsychotics work isn't known.
It is believed that these medications appear
to block certain chemical receptors in the brain
that are activated by chemical messangers
like serotonin and dopamine.
The atypical antipsychotics
are more likely to block certain types of
serotonin receptors than dopamine receptors.
This is thought to be the reason they produce
fewer side effects that affect movement,
and can treat more conditions than the older
typical antipsychotics of the past.